Machine Learning Engineering

Bootcamp

Your Final Submission

Summary
Time Estimate: 2 - 4 hours

Final Deliverables

The final deliverables for your project, such as your code and application (please see the project
evaluation section below), are part of your portfolio, which means that you’ll be sharing them
with potential employers.
When you and your mentor agree on a stopping point for the project, you should have the
following deliverables ready before asking your student advisor to start the completion process.

This document is authorized for use only by Artem Yankov (yankovai3@gmail.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of

copyright.

Mandatory deliverables
● Code for your project, well-documented on GitHub. We’ve provided some guidelines for
what a good GitHub should look like below.
● An application that is deployed on a cloud platform. This application must be accessible
using an API or a web service. Your GitHub README should contain instructions on how
to access and use the application.
Optional deliverables
● A frontend web interface for your application. This is optional but can make the
visualization of your work more compelling. However, if you don’t have any web
development skills, we recommend you focus on your core MLE skills and not spend
time on this task.
● A blog post summarizing your project. Blog posts help students get exposure to
potential employers and sets you up as a voice in the community.
Blog posts are a great way to generate awareness of your work and your brand as a
machine learning engineer. You’re encouraged to post on your own blog, Medium,
LinkedIn, or other platforms.

Guidelines for Strong Portfolio

Your portfolio consists of all of your projects, including the code and documentation, usually in
your GitHub account. Typically, a hiring manager who looks at your portfolio wants to see
evidence of both technical and communication skills. It is your responsibility to ensure that your
portfolio is clear and easy to navigate.

Tips to Help Your Portfolio Stand Out

1. Every project should ideally be in a separate repository that is clearly named.
2. For each project:
a. Have a README page:
i. The README should provide an executive summary of the project (i.e.
summarizes the problem, approach, and results).
ii. The README should also include a list of the important files that the
reader should view. The files should be clearly named and organized.

b. Clean up your code and document:
i. Your approach and methodology are clear to any technical reader. You do
not need to document every line of your code, but have comments or text
explaining important decision points and why you chose them.

c. Include any other documents that you have created (e.g. a report or slide deck in
the same repository as the code).
i. Make sure the README points them out to the reader.

This document is authorized for use only by Artem Yankov (yankovai3@gmail.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of

copyright.

3. Ensure that your portfolio is not cluttered with “junk” (i.e. repositories or folders that are
incomplete, irrelevant, or undocumented).
Overall, try to put yourself in the shoes of an experienced machine learning engineer or hiring
manager who has a limited amount of time to look at your portfolio. How can you ensure that
you make it easy for them to get a good idea of your skills and abilities? Your course TA, mentor,
and the community should also be able to provide good feedback on your portfolio, so please
use them as resources.

Project Evaluation

For Springboard to consider your workshop complete and issue a certificate of completion, your
mentor needs to approve your final project submissions based on the rubric listed below. If the
project is not approved, please discuss the feedback from your mentor and resubmit in case
improvements are necessary. Your student advisor will not be able to process your workshop
completion until your project is approved by your mentor!
Capstone Project Rubric

We use the following rubric for evaluating final capstone projects. Please take a good look at it
and make sure you discuss with your mentor to agree on success criteria.
View the Capstone Project Rubric here.
Your capstone project is evaluated based on two criteria: completion and
process/understanding. Within each criterion, specific benchmarks and expectations are listed
to help ensure the overall quality and mentor approval of your capstone project.
Because your mentor approves each step and later the entirety of your capstone, it’s vital that
you work with your mentor throughout the course to determine and agree what the bar is for
each criterion and to incorporate timely feedback during the intermediate stages.

This document is authorized for use only by Artem Yankov (yankovai3@gmail.com). Copying or posting is an infringement of

copyright.